[Spec] Rainbow Bridge (#38)
near/NEPs: specs/RainbowBridge/README.md

|          +--------------+     \                 |     +--------------+          |
|          |              |      o - NearRelay --------->              |          |
|          |              |     /                 |     |              |          |
|          |  EthClient   | (C) |                 | (3) |  NearClient  |          |
|          |              |     |                 /     |              |          |
|          |              <--------- EthRelay  - o      |              |          |
|          +--------------+     |                 \     +--------------+          |
|                               |                 |                               |
+-------------------------------+                 +-------------------------------+
```

### Use Cases

Please refer to the diagram above where (A), (B) and (C) appear to the left and (1), (2) and (3) appear the right.

#### Use Case A-B-C-B-A 

*NEAR smart contract must verify an event was recorded on the Ethereum blockchain*

- A contract running on the *NEAR blockchain* requires verifiable proof that an event has been recorded on the *Ethereum blockchain*.  

> - The contract `(A)` invokes a method on the `EthEventVerifier` `(B)`, passing in the appropriate parameters to represent the event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The contract `(A)` invokes a method on the `EthEventVerifier` `(B)`, passing in the appropriate parameters to represent the event and corresponding inclusion proof
```

> - `EthEventVerifier` `(B)` unpacks the Ethereum event and extracts the related block header which it passes on to the `EthClient` `(C)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `EthEventVerifier` `(B)` verifies the Ethereum event inclusion into the corresponding block header which exists in the `EthClient` `(C)`
```

> - `EthClient` `(C)` returns a boolean indicating whether the block header was indeed recorded on the Ethereum blockchain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `EthClient` `(C)` returns a boolean indicating whether the block hash was indeed recorded on the Ethereum blockchain
```

> - `EthEventVerifier` `(B)` passes this result on to the contract `(A)` as proof or rejection of the event as valid

Reviewer: Rejection?

Author: i mean that the event is valid or invalid, proof it is valid or rejection of the claim that it is valid

#### Use Case 1-2-3-2-1

*Ethereum smart contract must verify a transaction result was recorded on the NEAR blockchain*

- A contract running on the *Ethereum blockchain* requires verifiable proof that a transaction result has been recorded on the *NEAR blockchain*.  

> - The contract `(1)` invokes a method on the `NearTxResultVerifier` `(2)`, passing in the appropriate parameters to represent the transaction result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The contract `(1)` invokes a method on the `NearTxResultVerifier` `(2)`, passing in the appropriate parameters to represent the transaction result and inclusion proof
```

> - `NearTxResultVerifier` `(2)` unpacks the Near transaction result and extracts the related block header which it passes on to the `NearClient` `(3)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `NearTxResultVerifier` `(2)` verifies the Near transaction belongs to the related block header which is stored in the `NearClient` `(3)`
```

> - `NearClient` `(3)` returns a boolean indicating whether the block header was indeed recorded on the NEAR blockchain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `NearClient` `(3)` returns a boolean indicating whether the block hash was indeed recorded on the NEAR blockchain
```

> - `NearTxResultVerifier` `(2)` passes this result on to the contract `(1)` as proof or rejection of the transaction result as valid

Reviewer: Rejection?

Author: same as above

*In both cases, the light clients `EthClient` and `NearClient` are supported by arbitrary trustless actors (`EthRelay` and `NearRelay`) who wish to forward necessary data between Near and Ethereum blockchains, respectively.*

### Software

**Core Components**

Two smart contracts, `(C)` and `(3)` establish the baseline source of truth for blockchain activity on the "other" network.

- (C) `NearClient`- *smart contract hosted on **Ethereum** network*  \

>    This contract is a NEAR light client that receives NEAR block headers.  It verifies and stores block hashes only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This contract is a NEAR light client that receives NEAR block headers. It verifies the NEAR chain of blocks following Near Light Client Specification and stores block hashes only.
```

Author: ✅

- (3) `EthClient` – *smart contract hosted on the **NEAR** network*  \

>    This contract is an Ethereum light client that receives Ethereum block headers.  It verifies ethash and longest chain rule and stores block hashes only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This contract is an Ethereum light client that receives Ethereum block headers. It verifies ethash and longest chain rule and stores block hashes only.
```

Author: ✅

**Reference Implementations**

Two smart contracts demonstrate what is possible using the Rainbow Bridge.  These contract are intended to be used as **reference material** for developing other contracts about various blockchain platforms. 

*A note about NEAR and Ethereum blockchains*

> - At its core, NEAR is a sharded transaction processing engine which records *transaction results*.  These *transaction results* are a verifiable source of truth about the NEAR blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- At its core, NEAR is a sharded transaction processing engine that records *transaction results*. These *transaction results* are a verifiable source of truth about the NEAR blockchain.
```

Author: ✅

> - At its core, Ethereum is single threaded computer which, at various points in time, records *events*.  These *events* are a verifiable source of truth about the Ethereum blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- At its core, Ethereum is a single-threaded computer that, at various points in time, records *events*. These *events* are a verifiable source of truth about the Ethereum blockchain.
```

Author: ✅

- `NearTxResultVerifier` - *smart contract on **Ethereum** network*   \
  This contract performs verification of **NEAR transaction results** that have been included into NEAR blocks. It uses Merkle trees and hash preimages for verification.

- `EthEventVerifier` - *smart contract on **NEAR** network*   \
  This contract performs verification of **Ethereum events** that have been included into Ethereum blocks. It uses Merkle trees and hash preimages for verification.

**Supporting Scripts**

- `NearRelay` - an arbitrary, trustless actor that forwards NEAR block headers to the `NearClient` smart contract which is hosted on the Ethereum network.
- `EthRelay` - an arbitrary, trustless actor that forwards Ethereum block headers to the `EthClient` smart contract which is hosted on the NEAR network.

## Setting up the Rainbow Bridge

> 1. clone the repo `git clone git@github.com:nearprotocol/near-bridge.git`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. clone the repo `git clone --recurse-submodules git@github.com:nearprotocol/near-bridge.git`
```

Reviewer: We have Git Submodule in `ethrelay/ethashproof` dir. We also need to call it's `build.sh` script to make EthRelay work.

Author: ah, that's where that went!  thank you

Once deployed, `EthEventVerifier` and `NearTxResultVerifier` are available for use by smart contracts operating in their respective environments.

## API

### EthClient

```rust
pub struct DoubleNodeWithMerkleProof {}
impl DoubleNodeWithMerkleProof {}
pub struct HeaderInfo {}

#[near_bindgen]
pub struct EthBridge {}
impl Default for EthBridge {}

#[near_bindgen]
impl EthBridge {
    pub fn init(validate_ethash: bool, dags_start_epoch: u64, dags_merkle_roots: Vec<H128>) -> Self {}
    pub fn apply_merkle_proof(&self, index: u64) -> H128 {}
    pub fn initialized(&self) -> bool {}
    pub fn last_block_number(&self) -> u64 {}
    pub fn dag_merkle_root(&self, epoch: u64) -> H128 {}
    pub fn block_hash(&self, index: u64) -> Option<H256> {}
    pub fn block_hash_safe(&self, index: u64) -> Option<H256> {}

>     pub fn add_block_header(&mut self, block_header: Vec<u8>, dag_nodes: Vec<DoubleNodeWithMerkleProof>) {}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // EthRelay-specific API methods:
    pub fn last_block_number(&self) -> u64;
    pub fn add_block_header(&mut self, block_header: Vec<u8>, dag_nodes: Vec<DoubleNodeWithMerkleProof>);

    // Public smart contracts API methods:
    pub fn block_hash(&self, index: u64) -> Option<H256>;
    pub fn block_hash_safe(&self, index: u64) -> Option<H256>;
```

Author: ✅

*Please refer to [nearcore primitive types](https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearcore/blob/master/core/primitives/src/types.rs) for details*

```
Gas         u64
Nonce       u64
Balance     u128
AccountId   String
```

**Crypto**

*Please refer to [nearcore crypto signature](https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearcore/blob/master/core/crypto/src/signature.rs) for details*

```
struct CryptoHash([u8; 32])                                     Sha256 digest
struct MerkleHash(CryptoHash) 
struct EpochId(CryptoHash) 

enum PublicKey
    ED25519(sodiumoxide::crypto::sign::ed25519::PublicKey)      [u8; 32]
    SECP256K1(Secp256K1PublicKey)                               [u8; 64]

enum Signature
    ED25519(sodiumoxide::crypto::sign::ed25519::Signature)      [u8; 64]
    SECP256K1(Secp2561KSignature)                               [u8; 65]
```

**Block header**

*Please refer to [nearcore block primitives](https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearcore/blob/master/core/primitives/src/block.rs) for details*

```
struct ValidatorStake
    account_id              AccountId               Account that stakes money.
    public_key              PublicKey               Public key of the proposed validator.

>     amount                  Balance                 Stake / weight of the validator.

Reviewer: Maybe better to keep it Java/C style, like:
```java
struct ValidatorStake {
      AccountId  account_id; // Account that stakes money.
      PublicKey public_key;  // Public key of the proposed validator.
      Balance amount;
}
```

Author: ✅
